# Heads-Up
There are a lot of road accidents that occur due to drowsy driving. Drowsy driving is when the driver of the vehicle is found to be sleepy and probable to get into a car crash because of the same. Being drowsy might cause the driver to lose concentration from the road, and also reduce the reaction time. Statistics suggest that thousands of deaths and crashes happen every year due to it. Major victims of such crashes tend to be commercial drivers who need to drive long distances overnight. Our project intends to propose a solution to this problem by providing an Internet of Things based approach. This approach monitors the driver’s face while he or she is driving the vehicle and in case the driver is to be found falling asleep, an instant voice call is made to the driver’s registered phone number. Additionally, a text message is also sent to the driver’s emergency contact which will get him/her notified and provide the driver with quick assistance if needed. This approach is unique and different in its own way as it provides cross-platform support and remote monitoring of the driver. Additionally, it also makes drowsy-detection ‘device independent’ as well. It offers a simplified mechanism to derive real-time accurate results and readings with reduced complexities. This project does have a lot of scope, especially considering that there is a lack of methodologies currently implemented to prevent road accidents due to drowsy driving. 

Link: [Publication](https://doi.org/10.36713/epra7217)
